## April 29, 2018

### TED Talk - Stuart Russell: 3 Principals for creating safer AI

#### Video
[Stuart Russell: 3 Principals for creating safer AI](https://www.ted.com/talks/stuart_russell_3_principles_for_creating_safer_ai?utm_campaign=tedspread&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=tedcomshare)

#### Notes
* Holy cow: This is just an exclamation of surprise. (Click [here](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/139355/what-is-meant-by-holy-cows-phrases?utm_medium=organic&utm_source=google_rich_qa&utm_campaign=google_rich_qa) for more)

```markdown
1. Holy cow! Did you see that?
2. Holy cow moment
```

* Technologies that are coming down the pike: If something comes down the pike, it starts to happen or to become available.

```markdown
1. You should take this job offer—who knows when another will come down the pike?
2. That pitcher is the first young star to come down the pike for the team in many years.
```

**Here's an excerpt from the talk**: Well, the real world is much bigger, much more complicated than the Go board. It's a lot less visible, but it's still a decision problem. And if we think about some of the technologies that are coming down the pike ... Noriko [Arai] mentioned that reading is not yet happening in machines, at least with understanding. But that will happen, and when that happens, very soon afterwards, machines will have read everything that the human race has ever written. And that will enable machines, along with the ability to look further ahead than humans can, as we've already seen in Go, if they also have access to more information, they'll be able to make better decisions in the real world than we can. So is that a good thing? Well, I hope so.

!!! quote
    Even if we could keep the machines in a subservient position, for instance, by turning off the power at strategic moments, we should, as a species, feel greatly humbled. -- Alan Turing in 1951

* in dire straits: in a very bad situation that is difficult to fix.

```markdown
These kids are in dire straits, and the schools are doing nothing to help them!
```

* existential: of, related to, or affirming existence.

```markdown
In fact, you can see the existential sadness in their eyes.
```

* gorilla: 大猩猩

* nail down the problem a bit more: identify the problem more precisely.

!!! quote
    We had better be quite sure that the purpose put into the machine is the purpose which we really desire. -- Norbert Wiener in 1960

* so to speak:
    1. this is one way to say it. Used to suggest that some people may not think this is a good way to say something.

    ```markdown
    I am a writer, so to speak.
    ```

    2. a metaphor for something, used to explain that what you are saying is not to be understood exactly as stated.

    ```markdown
    In that relationship it's very much Lorna who wears the trousers, so to speak (= Lorna makes all the important decisions).
    ```

* die in misery and starvation: 死于痛苦和饥饿

* outwit: to defeat sb/sth or gain an advantage over them by doing sth clever. (outsmart)

```markdown
Somehow, he always manages to outwit his opponents.
```

*nastiness

**Excerpt**: if we look at his actions, he took an action that lost the game. That doesn't mean he wanted to lose.

**Excerpt**: There's also a very strong economic incentive to get this right. So imagine your domestic robot's at home. You're late from work again and the robot has to feed the kids, and the kids are hungry and there's nothing in the fridge. And the robot sees the cat. And the robot hasn't quite learned the human value function properly, so it doesn't understand the sentimental value of the cat outweighs the nutritional value of the cat. So then what happens? Well, it happens like this: "Deranged robot cooks kitty for family dinner." That one incident would be the end of the domestic robot industry. So there's a huge incentive to get this right long before we reach superintelligent machines.

* provably beneficial machines

* altruistic: showing a disinterested and selfless concern for the well-being of others; unselfish.

```markdown
It was an entirely altruistic act/behaviour.
```

## April 30, 2018

